README.md, before:

## structexplorer

[![Go](https://github.com/emicklei/structexplorer/actions/workflows/go.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/emicklei/structexplorer/actions/workflows/go.yml)
[![GoDoc](https://pkg.go.dev/badge/github.com/emicklei/structexplorer)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/emicklei/structexplorer)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/emicklei/structexplorer/branch/main/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/emicklei/structexplorer)

A Go Struct Explorer Service (http.Handler) that offers remote inspection of any Go struct and its references.

## install

    go get github.com/emicklei/structexplorer

## usage

    structexplorer.NewService("some structure", yourStruct).Start()

or as HTTP Handler:

    s := structexplorer.NewService("some structure", yourStruct)
    http.ListenAndServe(":5656", s)

then a HTTP service will be started

    INFO starting go struct explorer at http://localhost:5656

## syntax

- if a value is a pointer to a standard type then the display value has a "*" prefix
- if a value is a reflect.Value then the display value has a "~" prefix

## buttons

- ⇊ : explore one or more selected values from the list and put them below
- ⇉ : explore one or more selected values from the list and put them on the right
- z : show or hide fields which currently have zero value ("",0,nil,false)
- x : remove the struct from the page

Note: if the list contains just one structural value then selecting it can be skipped for both ⇊ and ⇉.

## examples

See folder `examples` for simple programs.

### example of exploring a [yaegi](https://github.com/traefik/yaegi) program

![program](./doc/explore_yaegi.png "Yaegi explore")

Commit message:

add Explore and Dump feature for debugging support

README.md, after:

## structexplorer

[![Go](https://github.com/emicklei/structexplorer/actions/workflows/go.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/emicklei/structexplorer/actions/workflows/go.yml)
[![GoDoc](https://pkg.go.dev/badge/github.com/emicklei/structexplorer)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/emicklei/structexplorer)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/emicklei/structexplorer/branch/main/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/emicklei/structexplorer)

A Go Struct Explorer Service (http.Handler) that offers remote inspection of any Go struct and its references.

## install

    go get github.com/emicklei/structexplorer

## usage

    structexplorer.NewService("some structure", yourStruct).Start()

or as HTTP Handler:

    s := structexplorer.NewService("some structure", yourStruct)
    http.ListenAndServe(":5656", s)

then a HTTP service will be started

    INFO starting go struct explorer at http://localhost:5656

## syntax

- if a value is a pointer to a standard type then the display value has a "*" prefix
- if a value is a reflect.Value then the display value has a "~" prefix

## buttons

- ⇊ : explore one or more selected values from the list and put them below
- ⇉ : explore one or more selected values from the list and put them on the right
- z : show or hide fields which currently have zero value ("",0,nil,false)
- x : remove the struct from the page

Note: if the list contains just one structural value then selecting it can be skipped for both ⇊ and ⇉.

## explore while debugging

Currently, the standard Go debugger `delve` stops all goroutines while in a debugging session.
This means the `structexplorer` service will not respond to any HTTP requests.
An alternative way to use the explorer to see your struct details is to explictly ask it to dump the HTML page to a file.

    s := structexplorer.NewService()
    s.Explore("some structure", yourStruct).Dump()

## examples

See folder `examples` for simple programs demonstrating each feature.

### example of exploring a [yaegi](https://github.com/traefik/yaegi) program

![program](./doc/explore_yaegi.png "Yaegi explore")
